odc 4.6 bugfixes (#26305)
openshift/openshift-docs: release_notes/ocp-4-6-release-notes.adoc

=== Removed features

[id="ocp-4-6-bug-fixes"]
== Bug fixes 

*Web console (Developer perspective)*

> * Previously, when you tried to delete a Knative application through a *Topology* view, a false positive error about an non-existing *Knative route* was reported. (link:https://bugzilla.redhat.com/show_bug.cgi?id=1866214[BZ#1866214])

Reviewer: through a *Topology* view/through the *Topology* view
an non/a non.
Please add : This issue is now fixed and the error is no longer displayed. or something to that effect.

Author: ```suggestion
* Previously, when you tried to delete a Knative application through the *Topology* view, a false positive error about a non-existing *Knative route* was reported. This issue is now fixed and the error is no longer displayed. link:https://bugzilla.redhat.com/show_bug.cgi?id=1866214[BZ#1866214])
```

> * Previously, when you tried to delete a Knative application through the *Topology* view, a false positive error about a non-existing *Knative route* was reported. This issue is now fixed and the error is no longer displayed. link:https://bugzilla.redhat.com/show_bug.cgi?id=1866214[BZ#1866214])

Reviewer 2: missing opening parenthesis before the link.

Author: ```suggestion
* Previously, when you tried to delete a Knative application through the *Topology* view, a false positive error about a non-existing *Knative route* was reported. This issue is now fixed and the error is no longer displayed. (link:https://bugzilla.redhat.com/show_bug.cgi?id=1866214[BZ#1866214])
```
cool, i missed that, thanks

> * Previously, Developer Console didn't allow images from insecure registries to be imported. This bug fix adds a checkbox that allows user to use the insecure registries in the *Deploy image* form (link:https://bugzilla.redhat.com/show_bug.cgi?id=1826740[BZ#1826740])

Reviewer: didn't/ did not

Author: ```suggestion
* Previously, Developer Console did not allow images from insecure registries to be imported. This bug fix adds a checkbox that allows user to use the insecure registries in the *Deploy image* form (link:https://bugzilla.redhat.com/show_bug.cgi?id=1826740[BZ#1826740])
```

> * Previously, Developer Console did not allow images from insecure registries to be imported. This bug fix adds a checkbox that allows user to use the insecure registries in the *Deploy image* form (link:https://bugzilla.redhat.com/show_bug.cgi?id=1826740[BZ#1826740])

Reviewer 2: s/Developer Console/the Developer Console
s/that allows user to/that allows users to
Missing period after `form`

Author: ```suggestion
* Previously, the Developer Console did not allow images from insecure registries to be imported. This bug fix adds a checkbox that allows users to use the insecure registries in the *Deploy image* form. (link:https://bugzilla.redhat.com/show_bug.cgi?id=1826740[BZ#1826740])
```

> * When a new application was created through the Developer Console a Developer Catalog was not being displayed. This was caused by an issue in the Jaeger operator. (link:https://bugzilla.redhat.com/show_bug.cgi?id=1845279[BZ#1845279])

Reviewer: When a user selected the *From Catalog* option to to create an application, the *Developer Catalog* displayed a blank page instead of a list of templates to create an application. This was caused when the 1.18.0 Jaeger operator was installed. This issue has now been fixed and the templates are displayed as expected.

Author: ```suggestion
* When a user selected the *From Catalog* option to to create an application, the *Developer Catalog* displayed a blank page instead of a list of templates to create an application. This was caused when the 1.18.0 Jaeger operator was installed. This issue has now been fixed and the templates are displayed as expected. link:https://bugzilla.redhat.com/show_bug.cgi?id=1845279[BZ#1845279])
```

> * When a user selected the *From Catalog* option to to create an application, the *Developer Catalog* displayed a blank page instead of a list of templates to create an application. This was caused when the 1.18.0 Jaeger operator was installed. This issue has now been fixed and the templates are displayed as expected. link:https://bugzilla.redhat.com/show_bug.cgi?id=1845279[BZ#1845279])

Reviewer 2: s/to to/to
s/operator/Operator
Missing opening parenthesis before the link.

Author: ```suggestion
* When a user selected the *From Catalog* option to create an application, the *Developer Catalog* displayed a blank page instead of a list of templates to create an application. This was caused when the 1.18.0 Jaeger Operator was installed. This issue has now been fixed and the templates are displayed as expected. (link:https://bugzilla.redhat.com/show_bug.cgi?id=1845279[BZ#1845279])
```

> * Previously, when modifying a Pipeline through the *Pipeline Builder* in the Developer Console, the interface was rearranging the tasks incorrectly. (link:https://bugzilla.redhat.com/show_bug.cgi?id=1856155[BZ#1856155])

Author: ```suggestion
* Previously, when adding or deleting a task in a Pipeline through the *Pipeline Builder* in the Developer Console, the interface was rearranging the tasks incorrectly. With this fix the parallel tasks are reconnected with the connector on addition or deletion of a task and the positions of the tasks are not rearranged. (link:https://bugzilla.redhat.com/show_bug.cgi?id=1856155[BZ#1856155])
```

> * Previously, when modifying a Pipeline through the *Pipeline Builder* in the Developer Console, the interface was rearranging the tasks incorrectly. (link:https://bugzilla.redhat.com/show_bug.cgi?id=1856155[BZ#1856155])

Reviewer: You could drop the previously here.

> * A web console was crashing with a JavaScript exception when the user cancelled the creation of a Pipeline through a web console. (link:https://bugzilla.redhat.com/show_bug.cgi?id=1856267[BZ#1856267])

Reviewer: Please add a line about the fix

Author: ```suggestion
* A web console was crashing with a JavaScript exception when the user cancelled the creation of a Pipeline through a web console. This was fixed by improving the internal state handling. (link:https://bugzilla.redhat.com/show_bug.cgi?id=1856267[BZ#1856267])
```

> * When adding or deleting a task in a Pipeline through the *Pipeline Builder* in the Developer Console, the interface was rearranging the tasks incorrectly. With this fix the parallel tasks are reconnected with the connector on addition or deletion of a task and the positions of the tasks are not rearranged. (link:https://bugzilla.redhat.com/show_bug.cgi?id=1856155[BZ#1856155])

Reviewer 2: Maybe:
```
With this fix, the parallel tasks are reconnected with the connector when
adding or deleting a task; the positions of the tasks are not rearranged.
```

Reviewer 3: Positions of the tasks will be rearranged but the position of the chain (connections) should not be rearranged. 
on **deletion** of  a parallel task, which has some sequential task attached to it, **should be rearranged** in manner where those sequential task is still connected to the pipeline rather than getting disconnected from it.

Author: ```suggestion
* When deleting a parallel task in a Pipeline through the *Pipeline Builder* in the Developer Console, the interface was rearranging the tasks connected to the parallel task incorrectly, creating orphan tasks. With this fix, the tasks connected to the deleted parallel task are reconnected with the original Pipeline. (link:https://bugzilla.redhat.com/show_bug.cgi?id=1856155[BZ#1856155])
```

> * User having the required permissions was unable to retrieve and deploy an image from an another project. (link:https://bugzilla.redhat.com/show_bug.cgi?id=1843222[BZ#1843222])

Reviewer: An user
from another project
Add: The required rolebindings have now been created to fix this issue.

Author: ```suggestion
* A user having the required permissions was unable to retrieve and deploy an image from another project. The required rolebindings have now been created to fix this issue. (link:https://bugzilla.redhat.com/show_bug.cgi?id=1843222[BZ#1843222])
```

> * A web console was crashing with a JavaScript exception when the user cancelled the creation of a Pipeline through a web console. (link:https://bugzilla.redhat.com/show_bug.cgi?id=1856267[BZ#1856267])

Reviewer 4: through a web console.... when the detail sidebar was opened at that time.

Only if this detail matters.

Author: ```suggestion
* A web console was crashing with a JavaScript exception when the user cancelled the creation of a Pipeline through a web console when the detail sidebar was opened at that time. (link:https://bugzilla.redhat.com/show_bug.cgi?id=1856267[BZ#1856267])
```

> * A web console was crashing with a JavaScript exception when the user cancelled the creation of a Pipeline through a web console. This was fixed by improving the internal state handling. (link:https://bugzilla.redhat.com/show_bug.cgi?id=1856267[BZ#1856267])

Reviewer 2: s/A web console/The web console
s/through a web console/through the web console

Author: ```suggestion
* The web console was crashing with a JavaScript exception when the user cancelled the creation of a Pipeline through the web console. This was fixed by improving the internal state handling. (link:https://bugzilla.redhat.com/show_bug.cgi?id=1856267[BZ#1856267])
```

> * The web console was crashing with a JavaScript exception when the user cancelled the creation of a Pipeline through the web console. This was fixed by improving the internal state handling. (link:https://bugzilla.redhat.com/show_bug.cgi?id=1856267[BZ#1856267])

Reviewer 4: This suggestion was outdated, but not added yet. Wdyt about this additional detail?

```suggestion
* The web console was crashing with a JavaScript exception when the user cancelled the creation of a Pipeline through the web console when the detail sidebar was opened at that time. This was fixed by improving the internal state handling. (link:https://bugzilla.redhat.com/show_bug.cgi?id=1856267[BZ#1856267])
```

Author: ```suggestion
* The web console was crashing with a JavaScript exception when the user cancelled the creation of a Pipeline through the web console with a *Details* sidebar opened at the same time. This was fixed by improving the internal state handling. (link:https://bugzilla.redhat.com/show_bug.cgi?id=1856267[BZ#1856267])
```

> * The web console was crashing with a JavaScript exception when the user cancelled the creation of a Pipeline through the web console with a side panel opened at the same time. This was fixed by improving the internal state handling. (link:https://bugzilla.redhat.com/show_bug.cgi?id=1856267[BZ#1856267])

Reviewer: The web console was crashing with a JavaScript exception when the user cancelled the creation of a Pipeline through the web console, and the side panel was open.

Author: leaving the original

> * The web console was crashing with a JavaScript exception when the user cancelled the creation of a Pipeline through the web console with a *Details* sidebar opened at the same time. This was fixed by improving the internal state handling. (link:https://bugzilla.redhat.com/show_bug.cgi?id=1856267[BZ#1856267])

Author: ```suggestion
* The web console was crashing with a JavaScript exception when the user cancelled the creation of a Pipeline through the web console with a side panel opened at the same time. This was fixed by improving the internal state handling. (link:https://bugzilla.redhat.com/show_bug.cgi?id=1856267[BZ#1856267])
```

> * When you tried to deploy an application from a Git repository with *Import from Git* function, even though the repository was reachable by the cluster, the Developer Console reported a false positive error `Git repository is not reachable`. This was fixed by changing the error message with the information on how to make the private repository available to the cluster. (link:https://bugzilla.redhat.com/show_bug.cgi?id=1877739[BZ#1877739])

Reviewer: even though/though, 
Suggest adding: ...function, even for private repositories and even though...
This was fixed by adding information on making the private repository available to the cluster in the error message.

Author: ```suggestion
* When you tried to deploy an application from a Git repository with *Import from Git* function, even for private repositories and even if the repository was reachable by the cluster, the Developer Console reported a false positive error `Git repository is not reachable`. This was fixed by adding information on making the private repository available to the cluster in the error message. (link:https://bugzilla.redhat.com/show_bug.cgi?id=1877739[BZ#1877739])
```

> * A user having the required permissions was unable to retrieve and deploy an image from another project. The required rolebindings have now been created to fix this issue. (link:https://bugzilla.redhat.com/show_bug.cgi?id=1843222[BZ#1843222])

Reviewer 2: s/A user having/A user with
s/rolebindings/RoleBindings

Author: ```suggestion
* A user with the required permissions was unable to retrieve and deploy an image from another project. The required RoleBindings have now been created to fix this issue. (link:https://bugzilla.redhat.com/show_bug.cgi?id=1843222[BZ#1843222])
```

> * When a Go application was created through the Developer Console, a route to the application was not created. This was caused by a bug in `build-tools` and incorrectly configured ports. (link:https://bugzilla.redhat.com/show_bug.cgi?id=1874817[BZ#1874817])

Reviewer: This has been fixed by picking either the user provided port or the default port `8080` as the target port.

> * When you tried to deploy an application from a Git repository with *Import from Git* function, even for private repositories and even if the repository was reachable by the cluster, the Developer Console reported a false positive error `Git repository is not reachable`. This was fixed by adding information on making the private repository available to the cluster in the error message. (link:https://bugzilla.redhat.com/show_bug.cgi?id=1877739[BZ#1877739])

Author: ```suggestion
* When you tried to deploy an application from a Git repository with *Import from Git* function, the Developer Console reported a false positive error `Git repository is not reachable` for private repositories reachable by the cluster. This was fixed by adding information on making the private repository available to the cluster in the error message. (link:https://bugzilla.redhat.com/show_bug.cgi?id=1877739[BZ#1877739])
```

> * When you tried to deploy an application from a Git repository with *Import from Git* function, the Developer Console reported a false positive error `Git repository is not reachable` for private repositories reachable by the cluster. This was fixed by adding information on making the private repository available to the cluster in the error message. (link:https://bugzilla.redhat.com/show_bug.cgi?id=1877739[BZ#1877739])

Reviewer 2: s/with \*Import from Git\*/with the \*Import from Git\*

Author: ```suggestion
* When you tried to deploy an application from a Git repository with the *Import from Git* function, the Developer Console reported a false positive error `Git repository is not reachable` for private repositories reachable by the cluster. This was fixed by adding information on making the private repository available to the cluster in the error message. (link:https://bugzilla.redhat.com/show_bug.cgi?id=1877739[BZ#1877739])
```

> * When you created an application with the *Import from Git* function, a subsequent change of the application's Git repository from the web console was not possible. This was caused by applying the application name in real-time when editing the application's properties. (link:https://bugzilla.redhat.com/show_bug.cgi?id=1873095[BZ#1873095])

Reviewer: Can we add a line about the fix?
Also please validate the second sentence with the SME

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
* When you created an application with the *Import from Git* function, a subsequent change of the application's Git repository from the web console was not possible. This was caused by again modifying the application name in real-time when there is change of git repo url. This was fixed by not modifying the application name(read only) and applying the changes made by user. (link:https://bugzilla.redhat.com/show_bug.cgi?id=1873095[BZ#1873095])
```

have tried to modify the reason, see if it looks fine.

Author: ```suggestion
* When you created an application with the *Import from Git* function, a subsequent change of the application's Git repository from the web console was not possible. This was caused by changing the application name in subsequent editing of the application properties. This was fixed with making the application name read-only when editing the application properties. (link:https://bugzilla.redhat.com/show_bug.cgi?id=1873095[BZ#1873095])
```

Reviewer 5: Looks good, Thanks :)

> * When a Go application was created through the Developer Console, a route to the application was not created. This was caused by a bug in `build-tools` and incorrectly configured ports. The issue has been fixed by picking either the user provided port or the default port 8080 as the target port. (link:https://bugzilla.redhat.com/show_bug.cgi?id=1874817[BZ#1874817])

Reviewer 2: s/user provided/user-provided

Author: ```suggestion
* When a Go application was created through the Developer Console, a route to the application was not created. This was caused by a bug in `build-tools` and incorrectly configured ports. The issue has been fixed by picking either the user-provided port or the default port 8080 as the target port. (link:https://bugzilla.redhat.com/show_bug.cgi?id=1874817[BZ#1874817])
```

> * Previously, a user without an administrative or project listing priviledges couldn't see the metrics of any projects. This bug fix removes the checks for user priviledges when accessing the cluster metrics. (link:https://bugzilla.redhat.com/show_bug.cgi?id=1842875[BZ#1842875])

Reviewer: privileges - change in both the instances
remove an before administrative

Author: ```suggestion
* Previously, a user without administrative or project listing privileges couldn't see the metrics of any projects. This bug fix removes the checks for user privileges when accessing the cluster metrics. (link:https://bugzilla.redhat.com/show_bug.cgi?id=1842875[BZ#1842875])
```

> * Users with "@" character in their user names (for example "user@example.com" couldn't start a Pipeline from the Developer Console. This was caused by the limitation in Kubernetes labels. (link:https://bugzilla.redhat.com/show_bug.cgi?id=1868653[BZ#1868653])

Reviewer: A line on the fix, please.

> * When you created an application with the *Import from Git* function, a subsequent change of the application's Git repository from the web console was not possible. This was caused by changing the application name in subsequent editing of the Git repository URL. This was fixed with making the application name read-only when editing the application Git repository URL. (link:https://bugzilla.redhat.com/show_bug.cgi?id=1873095[BZ#1873095])

Reviewer: This was caused by changing the application name in subsequent editing of the Git repository URL./ This was because the application name also changed when the Git repository URL was modified.

with making the application name/by making the application name

Author: leaving original + applying second suggestion
```suggestion
* When you created an application with the *Import from Git* function, a subsequent change of the application's Git repository from the web console was not possible. This was caused by changing the application name in subsequent editing of the Git repository URL. This was fixed by making the application name read-only when editing the application Git repository URL. (link:https://bugzilla.redhat.com/show_bug.cgi?id=1873095[BZ#1873095])
```

> * Previously, a user without administrative or project listing privileges couldn't see the metrics of any projects. This bug fix removes the checks for user privileges when accessing the cluster metrics. (link:https://bugzilla.redhat.com/show_bug.cgi?id=1842875[BZ#1842875])

Reviewer 2: s/couldn't/could not

Author: ```suggestion
* Previously, a user without administrative or project listing privileges could not see the metrics of any projects. This bug fix removes the checks for user privileges when accessing the cluster metrics. (link:https://bugzilla.redhat.com/show_bug.cgi?id=1842875[BZ#1842875])
```

> * Users with "@" character in their user names (for example "user@example.com" couldn't start a Pipeline from the Developer Console. This was caused by the limitation in Kubernetes labels. (link:https://bugzilla.redhat.com/show_bug.cgi?id=1868653[BZ#1868653])

Reviewer 2: Recommend this:

> Users with the \`@\` character in their user names, like \`user@example.com\`, could not start a Pipeline from the Developer Console. This was caused by a limitation in Kubernetes labels.

Author: ```suggestion
* Users with the `@` character in their user names, like `user@example.com`, could not start a Pipeline from the Developer Console. This was caused by a limitation in Kubernetes labels. (link:https://bugzilla.redhat.com/show_bug.cgi?id=1868653[BZ#1868653])
```

> * Users with the `@` character in their user names, like `user@example.com`, could not start a Pipeline from the Developer Console. This was caused by a limitation in Kubernetes labels. (link:https://bugzilla.redhat.com/show_bug.cgi?id=1868653[BZ#1868653])

Author: ```suggestion
* Users with the `@` character in their user names, like `user@example.com`, could not start a Pipeline from the Developer Console. This was caused by a limitation in Kubernetes labels. The issue was fixed by moving the "Started by" metadata from a Kubernetes label to Kubernetes annotation (link:https://bugzilla.redhat.com/show_bug.cgi?id=1868653[BZ#1868653])
```

> * Users with the `@` character in their user names, like `user@example.com`, could not start a Pipeline from the Developer Console. This was caused by a limitation in Kubernetes labels. The issue was fixed by moving the "Started by" metadata from a Kubernetes label to a Kubernetes annotation (link:https://bugzilla.redhat.com/show_bug.cgi?id=1868653[BZ#1868653])

Reviewer: Suggest: The issue was fixed by converting the *Started by* metadata  Kubernetes label into a Kubernetes annotation.
Ensure you had the period at the end of the sentence.

Author: leaving the original, adding period.

Author: ```suggestion
* Users with the `@` character in their user names, like `user@example.com`, could not start a Pipeline from the Developer Console. This was caused by a limitation in Kubernetes labels. The issue was fixed by moving the "Started by" metadata from a Kubernetes label to a Kubernetes annotation. (link:https://bugzilla.redhat.com/show_bug.cgi?id=1868653[BZ#1868653])
```

> * Users with the `@` character in their user names, like `user@example.com`, could not start a Pipeline from the Developer Console. This was caused by a limitation in Kubernetes labels. The issue was fixed by moving the "Started by" metadata from a Kubernetes label to Kubernetes annotation (link:https://bugzilla.redhat.com/show_bug.cgi?id=1868653[BZ#1868653])

Author: ```suggestion
* Users with the `@` character in their user names, like `user@example.com`, could not start a Pipeline from the Developer Console. This was caused by a limitation in Kubernetes labels. The issue was fixed by moving the "Started by" metadata from a Kubernetes label to a Kubernetes annotation (link:https://bugzilla.redhat.com/show_bug.cgi?id=1868653[BZ#1868653])
```
